



Transport and Services Working Group                   J. Kaippallimalil
Internet-Draft                                                 Futurewei
Intended status: Informational                             S. Gundavelli
Expires: 22 November 2024                                          Cisco
                                                              S. Dawkins
                                                     Tencent America LLC
                                                            M. Boucadair
                                                                  Orange
                                                                T. Reddy
                                                                   Nokia
                                                             21 May 2024


            Requirements for Network Collaboration Signaling
              draft-kwbdgrr-tsvwg-net-collab-rqmts-latest

Abstract

   Wireless networks like cellular or Wi-Fi experience significant but
   transient variations in link capacity, have policy constraints (e.g.,
   bandwidth) that affect user experience.  Collaborative signaling
   (e.g., host-to-network and server-to-network) can improve the user
   experience by informing the network about the the nature and relative
   importance of frames or streams without having to disclose the
   content of the packets.  Moreover, the collaborative signalling may
   be enabled so that the client is aware of the network's treatment of
   incoming packets.  For host-to-network, collaboration can be put in
   place without requiring revealing the identity of the remote server.
   This collaboration allows for differentiated services at the network
   (e.g., packet discard preference), the sender (e.g., adaptive
   transmission), or through cooperation of server / host and the
   network.

   This document lists some use cases that demonstrate the need for a
   mechanism to share metadata and outlines requirements for both
   server-to-network (and vice versa) and host-to-network (and vice
   versa).  The document focuses on intra-flow or flows bound to the
   same user.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   Status information for this document may be found at
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-kwbdgrr-tsvwg-net-collab-
   rqmts/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the TSVWG Working Group
   mailing list (mailto:tsvwg@ietf.org), which is archived at
   https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/tsvwg/.  Subscribe at
   https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/tsvwg/.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 22 November 2024.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
     2.1.  Definitions
   3.  Use Cases
     3.1.  Media Streaming
     3.2.  Interactive Media
     3.3.  User Preferences
     3.4.  Mixed Traffic
   4.  Operational Considerations
     4.1.  Policy Enforcement
     4.2.  Redundant Functions and Classification Complications
     4.3.  Metadata Scope
     4.4.  Application Interference
     4.5.  Privacy Considerations
     4.6.  Scalability
     4.7.  Session Continuity
     4.8.  Abuse and Constraints
   5.  On-path Metadata Requirements
     5.1.  Server-Network Metadata
       5.1.1.  Identification of Media Frames and Streams
       5.1.2.  Relative Priority
       5.1.3.  Tolerance to Delay
       5.1.4.  Burst Indication
     5.2.  Host-Network Metadata
       5.2.1.  Priority between Flows (Inter-flow)
       5.2.2.  Priority within a Flow (Intra-Flow)
   6.  Non-Requirements
   7.  IANA Considerations
   8.  Security Considerations
   Acknowledgments
   References
     Normative References
     Informative References
   Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

   Wireless networks inherently experience large variations in link
   capacity due to several factors.  These include the change in
   wireless channel conditions, interference between proximate cells and
   channels or because of the end user movement.  These variations in
   link capacity can be in the order of a millisecond or less.  Media
   frames may experience high sojourn times in the wireless network or
   the flow may experience lower throughput, neither of which is
   desirable.  The result is applications settling for a lower
   throughput when latency is prioritized or achieving higher throughput
   at the expense of much higher delays.  With unencrypted packets,
   networks used Deep Packet Inspection (DPI) to identify an “implicit
   signal” derived from the contents of a packet to prioritize or
   otherwise shape flows.  When packet contents are encrypted, this
   approach is no longer viable.

   Bandwidth constraints exist most predominantly at the access network
   (e.g., radio access networks).  Users who are serviced via these
   networks use various hosts which run various applications; each
   having different connectivity needs for an optimal user experience.
   These needs are not frozen but change over time depending on the
   application and even depending on how an application is used (e.g.,
   user's preferences).  An explicit signal to the user can help to
   manage the use of available bandwidth better.

   Applications like interactive media on the other hand can demand both
   high throughput and low latency, and in some cases carry different
   media streams (e.g., audio, video) in a single transport connection
   (e.g., WebRTC).  There may be preferences that an application may
   wish to convey, such as a higher priority for audio over video (or
   the opposite) in congested networks.  With RTP, the type of media
   could be examined and used as an implicit signal for relative
   priority.  However, [RFC9335] defines a new mechanism that completely
   encrypts RTP header extensions and CSRCs.  Further, a full encrypted
   transport such as QUIC does not expose any media header information
   that networks on path can use.

   Traffic patterns in some emerging applications can vary significantly
   during the session.  For example, live media or AI generated content
   can have significant dynamic variations and potentially aperiodic
   frames.  Information in unencrypted media packets and headers that
   wireless networks have used to optimize traffic shaping and
   scheduling are not exposed in encrypted communications.

                       |
         3GPP/mobile network
   +-------------------|----------------------+
   |+----+             |   +-----+    +-----+ |
   ||host+------------(B)--+radio+----+ UPF | |
   |+----+             |   +-----+    +--+--+ |
   +-------------------|-----------------|----+
                       |                 |
         Wireless home/ISP network       |
   +-------------------|-----------+     |    |          |
   |+----+    +------+ |  +------+ | +---+--+ | +------+ | +------+
   ||host+-(B)+ WLAN +(B)-+router+---+router+---+router+---+server|
   |+----+    +------+ |  +------+ | +------+ | +------+ | +------+
   +-------------------|-----------+          |          |
                       |                      |          |
                       |                      | Transit  |  Content
    User device/Network|    MNO/ISP Network   | Network  |  Network

                                  Figure 1

   Figure 1 shows where such bandwidth and performance constraints
   usually exist with a “B” (for Bottleneck) in 3GPP/mobile networks and
   WLAN/ISP networks.  When a bottleneck exists temporarily, the network
   has no choice but to discard or delay packets -- which can harm
   certain flows and thus lead to suboptimal perceived experience.  In
   this document, this is termed 'reactive policy'.

   The rapid variation of wireless link capacity and/or bandwidth
   limitations in networks along with interactive applications that
   demand low latency and high throughput can lead to poor user
   experience.  Section 3 outlines use cases to illustrate the issues.
   Section 4 provides operational constraints in the network and
   Section 5 describes the requirements for on-path media collaboration
   signals.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

2.1.  Definitions

   The document makes use of the following terms:

   Intentional Management:  Network policy such as (monthly) bandwidth
      quota or bandwidth limit, or quality (delay and/or jitter))
      assurances.

   Reactive Management:  Network reactions to congestion events or
      protection polices under attacks, with very short to very long
      durations (e.g., varying wireless and mobile air interface
      conditions).

   Traffic shaping:  Refers in this document to QoS management at the
      wireless/access router to delay or discard packets of lower
      priority to achieve bounded latency and high throughput.

   User Plane Function (UPF):  Refers to a 3GPP element that is located
      between the mobile infrastructure and the Data Network (DN) as
      shown in Figure 2.

      For a definitive description of 3GPP network architectures, the
      reader should refer to the 3GPP's TR 23.501.

       ┌─────┐  ┌─────┐  ┌─────┐    ┌─────┐  ┌─────┐  ┌─────┐
       │NSSF │  │ NEF │  │ NRF │    │ PCF │  │ UDM │  │ AF  │
       └──┬──┘  └──┬──┘  └──┬──┘    └──┬──┘  └──┬──┘  └──┬──┘
     Nnssf│    Nnef│    Nnrf│      Npcf│    Nudm│        │Naf
       ───┴────────┴──┬─────┴──┬───────┴───┬────┴────────┴────
                 Nausf│    Namf│       Nsmf│
                   ┌──┴──┐  ┌──┴──┐     ┌──┴──────┐
                   │AUSR │  │ AMF │     │   SMF   │
                   └─────┘  └──┬──┘     └──┬──────┘
                            ╱  │           │      ╲
     Control Plane      N1 ╱   │N2         │N4     ╲N4
     ════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
     User Plane          ╱     │           │         ╲
                     ┌───┐  ┌──┴──┐  N3 ┌──┴──┐ N9 ┌─────┐ N6  .───.
                     │UE ├──┤(R)AN├─────┤ UPF ├────┤ UPF ├────( DN  )
                     └───┘  └─────┘     └─────┘    └─────┘     `───'

                         Figure 2: 5GS Architecture

3.  Use Cases

3.1.  Media Streaming

   Streaming video contains the occasional key frame ("I-frame")
   containing a full video frame.  These are necessary to rebuild
   receiver state after loss of delta frames.  The key frames are
   therefore more critical to deliver to the receiver than delta frames.

   Streaming video also contains audio frames which can be encoded
   separately and thus can be signaled separately.  Audio is more
   critical than video for almost all applications, but its importance
   (relative to other packets in the flow) is still an application
   decision.

   Examples: Super bowl, On-Demand Streaming

3.2.  Interactive Media

   Interactive media includes content that a user can actively engage
   with and results in input and response actions that can be highly
   delay sensitive.  They may include digital models of the real world,
   multimedia content and interactive engagement.

   Examples: VoIP (peer-to-peer (P2P), group conferencing), gaming,
   eXtended Reality (XR).

3.3.  User Preferences

   A game or VoIP application may want to signal different metadata for
   the same type of packet in each direction.  For example, for a game,
   video in the server-to-client direction might be more important than
   audio, whereas input devices (e.g., keystrokes) might be more
   important than audio.  Each user can have varied preferences for the
   same type of data originating from the server.  Determination of such
   preferences is outside of the scope of this document.

3.4.  Mixed Traffic

   Desktop virtualization is an example where a server can host multiple
   connections with varying types of traffic to a remote desktop.  In
   some cases, the signaling (like DSCP) from the servers are ignored by
   the ISP.

   In a remote desktop, a streaming video application may be playing in
   the background while the user is editing a document.  The user’s
   keystrokes and those glyphs may need priority over the video in such
   cases.

   Determination of such preferences is up to the user or application(s)
   and out of scope of this document.  However, it illustrates the need
   for explicit signaling of preferences to the network.

4.  Operational Considerations

   Traffic policing and shaping are enforced in ingress/egress network
   points for various reasons (protect the network against attacks,
   ensure conformance with a trafic profile, etc.).  Out-of-profile
   trafic may be discarded or assigned another class (e.g., using Lower
   Effort Per-Domain Behavior (LE PDB) [RFC3662]) a bandwidth limit
   among others.  The exact behavior is policy-based and deployment-
   specific.

   The entire set of operations to manage traffic is beyond the scope of
   this document.  This section focuses on operational constraints that
   impact server – network, and host – network modes of sending
   metadata.

4.1.  Policy Enforcement

   Some metadata requires the network to share some hints with a host to
   adjust its behavior for some specific flows.  However, that metadata
   may have a dependency on the service offering that is subscribed by a
   user.

   Let us consider the example of a bitrate for an optimized video
   delivery. _Such bitrate may not be computed system-wide_ given that
   flows from users with distinct service offerings (and connectivity
   SLOs) may be serviced by the same network nodes.  Instead, the
   network needs to dynamically adjust the bitrate based on each user's
   service package and connectivity SLOs to ensure optimal delivery for
   all users.

4.2.  Redundant Functions and Classification Complications

   If distinct channels are used to share the metadata between a host
   and a network, a network that engages in the collaborative signaling
   approach will require sophisticated features to classify flows and
   decide which channel is used to share metadata so that it can consume
   that information.

   Likewise, the network will require to implement redundant functions;
   for each signaling interface.

   _As such, application- and protocol-specific signaling channels are
   suboptimal._

4.3.  Metadata Scope

   An operational challenge for sharing resource-quota like metadata
   (e.g., maximum bitrate) is that the network is generally not entitled
   to allocate quota per-application, per-flow, per-stream, etc. that
   delivered as part of an Internet connectivity service.  However, the
   network has a visibility about the overall network attachment (e.g.
   inbound/outbound bandwidth discussed in
   [I-D.ietf-opsawg-teas-attachment-circuit]).

   As such, hints about resource-like metadata is bound by default to
   the overall network attachment, not specific to a given application
   or flow.

   Most importantly, the metadata can be used by the network to
   prioritize traffic within a single 5-tuple connection and metadata
   cannot be leveraged for prioritization between different flows.

   It is out of the scope of this document to discuss setups (e.g., 3GPP
   PDU Sessions) where network attachments with Guaranteed Bit Rate
   (GBR) for specific flows is provided.

4.4.  Application Interference

   Applications that have access to a resource-quota information may
   adopt an aggressive behavior (compared to those that don't have
   access) if they assumed that a resource-quota like metadata is for
   the application, not for the host that runs the applications.

   This is challenging for home networks where multiple hosts may be
   running behind the same CPE, with each of them running a video
   application.  The same challenge may apply when tethering is enabled.

4.5.  Privacy Considerations

   Encrypted media payloads along with temporary IPv6 addresses between
   a server and user (client) provide a measure of privacy for the
   content and the identity of the user.  It should however be noted
   that media flows (e.g., encrypted video payloads in SRTP) exhibit a
   pattern of bursts and intervals that amounts to a signature and is
   vulnerable to frequency analysis.  To avoid this kind of frequency
   analysis, media sent by the server would need to be scheduled or
   multiplexed differently to each user/recipient.  This may be possible
   in transports like QUIC which allows flexibility in scheduling each
   stream.  Transports like QUIC also fully encrypt the entire stream
   and therefore no media headers are observable on path either.  The
   security aspects of the media payload/ transport are not in the scope
   of these requirements and is described here only to provide context
   for metadata privacy.  Privacy considerations for the metadata itself
   should ensure that no additional information about the content is
   disclosed to the network, and no information about the user of the
   content is disclosed to the network or server.

   Some metadata (e.g., the size of a burst of packets, sequence number,
   and timestamp) can be readily observed or inferred by entities along
   the network path.  However, it is essential to recognize that while
   sequence numbers and timestamps are typically visible in the clear-
   text headers of protocols (e.g., TCP, RTP, or SRTP) they are not
   directly observable in encrypted protocols such as QUIC.  All
   metadata sent from the server to the wireless router, including these
   elements and others, are vulnerable to modification while in transit.
   Only an on-path attacker can modify on-path metadata.  Such an
   attacker could engage in other malicious activities, like corrupting
   the checksum or completely dropping the packet.  For instance, an
   active attacker could alter the metadata to mislabel packets
   containing video key-frames as unimportant, but such changes are
   detectable by the receiver.  The privacy implications of revealing
   metadata to network elements need to be thoroughly analyzed.  This
   analysis should ensure that any exposure of metadata does not
   compromise user privacy or allow unauthorized entities to infer
   sensitive information about the data being transmitted.

4.6.  Scalability

   There may be a large number of media flows handled by the server and
   wireless/access router.

   Per flow information (state) at a wireless router for optimizing the
   flow can negate the advantages offered as the number of flows handled
   increase.  The metadata and other state information that a wireless
   router has to maintain for each additional media flow it handles
   should be kept to a minimum or eliminated altogether.

4.7.  Session Continuity

   The general trend in wireless networks is to deploy the wireless
   router closer to the user.  This can help with low link latency but
   can result in more frequent handovers as the user moves between
   routers.  The frequency of handovers increases when a user moves
   faster or when the media session lasts longer.

   During handovers, there should be minimal delay incurred during
   handover in configuring/setting up the metadata of a media session in
   progress.

4.8.  Abuse and Constraints

   It is important that not every flow be prioritized; otherwise, the
   network devolves into the best-effort network that existed prior to
   metadata signaling.  It is a requirement that mechanisms exist to
   prevent this occurrence.

   Such a mechanism might be simple, for example, a cellular network
   might allow one flow from a subscriber to declare itself as
   important; other flows with that subscriber are denied attempts to
   prioritize themselves.  However, the network cannot identify whether
   the prioritized flow is legitimate or malicious.

5.  On-path Metadata Requirements

   There are various approaches for collaborative signaling between the
   server/host and network including out-of-band signaling, client-
   centric metadata sharing and proxied connections.  The requirements
   here focus on proxied metadata connections on path with the data
   traffic.

   The path signals below should follow the principles of intentional
   distribution, protection of information, minimization and limiting
   impact as described in [RFC9419] and [RFC8558].  Leveraging previous
   experience ([RFC9049]), the metadata signals does not need
   application identity, application cause (or 'reason'), server
   identity or the inspection of client(host)-to-server encrypted
   payload.

   The metadata connections may be between server and network (in either
   direction) or between host and network (in either direction).

   Some use cases benefit from metadata provided by the server to the
   network and is described in (Section 5.1).  In other cases, the
   client provides information to the network and is described in
   (Section 5.2).  For the requirements that follow, the assumption is
   that the client agrees to the exchange of metadata between the server
   and network, or between the client and network.

5.1.  Server-Network Metadata

5.1.1.  Identification of Media Frames and Streams

   Feedback provided by ECN/L4S to the server (UDP sender) is not fast
   enough to adjust the sending rate when available wireless capacity
   changes significantly in very short periods of time (~ 1
   millisecond).  Differentiating using multiple DSCP codes does not
   provide the resolution required to classify media frames or streams
   and adapt to changes in coding due to dynamic content or resulting
   from network conditions.

   Relative priority and tolerance to delay of media frames or streams
   can be used to optimize traffic shaping at the wireless router.  The
   application can provide information to detect the start, end and set
   of packets that belong to a media frame.  Alternatively, the
   application may provide information to identify one stream of the
   flow from another.  The application provides information to identify
   either media frames or streams in a flow but not both.

   In cases where the wireless network has to drop or delay processing,
   all packets of the media frame or stream are treated in the same
   manner.

5.1.2.  Relative Priority

   Relative importance of a media frame provides the priority level of
   one media frame over another media frame within a stream.  The
   application server determines the importance based on the media
   encoded in the media frame (e.g., a base layer video I-frame has
   higher priority than an enhanced layer P-frame).  Importance may be
   used to determine drop priority of a media frame in cases of extreme
   congestion in the wireless network.

   Relative importance of a media stream is the priority level of one
   media stream over another stream in the flow (with the same IP
   5-tuple).  As with media frames, importance may be used to determine
   drop priority in cases of extreme congestion in the wireless network.

5.1.3.  Tolerance to Delay

   Some media frames may be able to tolerate more delay over the wire
   than others (e.g., live media frames require very low latency while a
   background image for augmented reality may be delivered with more
   delay tolerance).  Similarly, some media streams can tolerate more
   delay over the wire than others (e.g., a stream carrying a background
   image may tolerate more delay). ams may be able to tolerate more
   delay over the wire than others (e.g., a stream carrying a background
   image for augmented reality may be delivered with more delay
   tolerance).  Even when the media payload is not encrypted, the
   network has no means to distinguish these different requirements.

   If the application can indicate that a media frame or stream can
   tolerate high delay the wireless router can opt to delay packets
   rather than drop during transient congestion periods.

5.1.4.  Burst Indication

   Media flows can have large and unexpected variations in packet bursts
   due to dynamic changes in content, server estimation of network
   conditions and pacing behavior.  Encoding of live video, and
   multimodal media can only increase the burst size that a server has
   to contend with sending out in a relative smoothed out manner.  The
   burst size is observable on the wire, but can only be determined by
   the end of the burst of packets.  Wireless networks on the other hand
   cannot reserve resources for the maximum burst size allowed as that
   will likely lead to poor utilization of radio resources or tail
   drops.

   The server may provide burst size at the beginning of the burst to
   allow the scheduler to reserve sufficient resources (and avoid having
   too few resources that may lead to a tail drop).  The server may also
   signal end of burst that provides information for the radio to go
   into sleep mode (Connected Mode Discontinuous Reception, C-DRX) if
   there is no paging message.

5.2.  Host-Network Metadata

5.2.1.  Priority between Flows (Inter-flow)

   Certain flows being received by a host (or by an application on a
   host) are less or more important than other flows of _the same host_.
   For example, a host downloading a software update is generally
   considered less important than another host doing interactive audio/
   video or gaming.  By signaling the relative importance of flows to a
   network element, the network element can (de-)prioritize those flows
   to best accommodate the needs of the various applications on a same
   host.

   Without a signaling in place between a receiving host and its
   network, remote peers are able to mark packets that interfere with
   the desires of the receiving host -- making their flows more
   important than what the receiving host considers more important.
   This eventually causes all flows to be marked as important, or --
   more likely -- such priority markings to be ignored.

   However, prioritizing between flows presents challenges because the
   host can have both malicious and legitimate applications, and the
   remote peers can also be malicious and benign.

5.2.2.  Priority within a Flow (Intra-Flow)

   Interactive Audio/Video has long been using [RFC3550] which runs over
   UDP.  As described in Section 2.3.7.2 of [RFC7478], there is value in
   differentiating between voice, video and data.  Today's video
   streaming is exclusively over TCP but will migrate to QUIC and
   eventually is likely to support unreliable transport ([RFC9221],
   [I-D.ietf-moq-transport]).  With unreliable transport of video in RTP
   or QUIC, it is beneficial to differentiate the important video
   keyframes from other video frames.  Other applications such as gaming
   and remote desktop also benefit from differentiating their packets to
   the network.

   Many of these flows do not originate from a content provider's
   network -- rather, they originate from a peer (e.g., VoIP,
   interactive video, peer-to-peer gaming, Remote Desktop, CDN).  Thus,
   the flows originate from an IP address that is not known before
   connection establishment, so there needs to be a way for the client
   to authorize the network elements to receive and hopefully to honor
   the metadata of those packets from a remote peer.

   Without a signaling in place between a receiving host and its
   network, remote peers are able to mark every packet of a flow as
   important, causing much the same problem as the previous use-case.
   Eventually, when all packets of every flow are marked as important,
   there is no differentiation between packets within a flow, rendering
   the network unable to improve reactive policy decisions.

6.  Non-Requirements

   Application feedback with measurements of packets lost and delay
   incurred may affect the sending rate and other behavior of the
   application.  The requirements and specification to mitigate these
   aspects are not in the scope of this document.

7.  IANA Considerations

   None.

8.  Security Considerations

   Security aspects for the metadata are discussed in Section 4.5.  The
   principles outlined in [RFC8558], [RFC9049] and [RFC9419] contain
   security considerations and are referenced in Section 5.

   This document has no other security considerations.

Acknowledgments

   Xavier De Foy and the authors of this draft have discussed the
   similarities and differences of this draft with the MoQ draft for
   carrying media metadata.

   The authors wish to thank Mike Heard, Sebastian Moeller and Tom
   Herbert for discussions on metadata fields, fragmentation and various
   transport aspects.

   The authors appreciate input from Marcus Ilhar and Magnus Westerlund
   on the need to address privacy in general and Dan Druta to consider a
   common transport across various host to network signaling when
   possible.  Ruediger Geib suggested that limiting the amount of state
   information that a wireless router has to keep for a flow should be
   minimized.

   Ingemar Johansson's suggestions on fast fading (which L4S handles)
   and dramatic drops in wireless accesses have been helpful to identify
   the issues.  Thanks to Hang Shi for the review and comments on host-
   to-network signaling.

References

Normative References

   [I-D.ietf-moq-transport]
              Curley, L., Pugin, K., Nandakumar, S., Vasiliev, V., and
              I. Swett, "Media over QUIC Transport", Work in Progress,
              Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-moq-transport-03, 4 March 2024,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-moq-
              transport-03>.

   [I-D.ietf-opsawg-teas-attachment-circuit]
              Boucadair, M., Roberts, R., de Dios, O. G., Barguil, S.,
              and B. Wu, "YANG Data Models for Bearers and 'Attachment
              Circuits'-as-a-Service (ACaaS)", Work in Progress,
              Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-opsawg-teas-attachment-circuit-
              12, 14 May 2024, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/
              draft-ietf-opsawg-teas-attachment-circuit-12>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

   [RFC9335]  Uberti, J., Jennings, C., and S. Murillo, "Completely
              Encrypting RTP Header Extensions and Contributing
              Sources", RFC 9335, DOI 10.17487/RFC9335, January 2023,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9335>.

Informative References

   [RFC3550]  Schulzrinne, H., Casner, S., Frederick, R., and V.
              Jacobson, "RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real-Time
              Applications", STD 64, RFC 3550, DOI 10.17487/RFC3550,
              July 2003, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3550>.

   [RFC3662]  Bless, R., Nichols, K., and K. Wehrle, "A Lower Effort
              Per-Domain Behavior (PDB) for Differentiated Services",
              RFC 3662, DOI 10.17487/RFC3662, December 2003,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3662>.

   [RFC7478]  Holmberg, C., Hakansson, S., and G. Eriksson, "Web Real-
              Time Communication Use Cases and Requirements", RFC 7478,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC7478, March 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7478>.

   [RFC8558]  Hardie, T., Ed., "Transport Protocol Path Signals",
              RFC 8558, DOI 10.17487/RFC8558, April 2019,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8558>.

   [RFC9049]  Dawkins, S., Ed., "Path Aware Networking: Obstacles to
              Deployment (A Bestiary of Roads Not Taken)", RFC 9049,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9049, June 2021,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9049>.

   [RFC9221]  Pauly, T., Kinnear, E., and D. Schinazi, "An Unreliable
              Datagram Extension to QUIC", RFC 9221,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9221, March 2022,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9221>.

   [RFC9419]  Arkko, J., Hardie, T., Pauly, T., and M. Kühlewind,
              "Considerations on Application - Network Collaboration
              Using Path Signals", RFC 9419, DOI 10.17487/RFC9419, July
              2023, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9419>.

Authors' Addresses

   John Kaippallimalil
   Futurewei
   Email: john.kaippallimalil@futurewei.com


   Sri Gundavelli
   Cisco
   Email: sgundave@cisco.com


   Spencer Dawkins
   Tencent America LLC
   Email: spencerdawkins.ietf@gmail.com


   Mohamed Boucadair
   Orange
   35000 Rennes
   France
   Email: mohamed.boucadair@orange.com


   Tirumaleswar Reddy
   Nokia
   Bangalore
   Karnataka
   India
   Email: kondtir@gmail.com
